Handbook: define continuous flow process for working groups (#45201)
fleetdm/fleet: handbook/company/product-groups.md

### Continuous flow

Unlike product groups, which use [scrum](#scrum-at-fleet) with 3-week sprints, working groups use a continuous flow process. Well-drafted stories can often be implemented in a day or two, so batching work into 3-week sprints creates unnecessary latency. Instead, issues flow continuously across the working group's board from intake to release.

#### What is the same

> - **3-week release cadence**: Planning is decoupled from the release boundary. We ship what is complete at each release. fleetd changes follow their own cadence.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Group roles**: Same group roles and overall responsibilities. 
- **Standups**: Daily standups become 30 minutes so fast draft can happen.
- **Weekly planning**: Sprint planning becomes a weekly 1-hour standup.
- **3-week release cadence**: Planning is decoupled from the release boundary. We ship what is complete at each release. fleetd changes follow their own cadence.
-  **Release retros**: 30-minute retrospective at the end of each 3-week release. 
```

### Continuous flow

Unlike product groups, which use [scrum](#scrum-at-fleet) with 3-week sprints, working groups use a continuous flow process. Well-drafted stories can often be implemented in a day or two, so batching work into 3-week sprints creates unnecessary latency. Instead, issues flow continuously across the working group's board from intake to release.

#### What is the same

- **Group roles**: Same group roles and overall responsibilities. 
- **Standups**: Daily standups become 30 minutes so fast draft can happen.
- **Weekly planning**: Sprint planning becomes a weekly 1-hour standup.
- **3-week release cadence**: Planning is decoupled from the release boundary. We ship what is complete at each release. fleetd changes follow their own cadence.

> -  **Release retros**: 30-minute retrospective at the end of each 3-week release. 

Reviewer: Do we want to include QA day in here still. A bit pedantic, but that is a "ritual" we have in the product groups currently that seems to work well.

Author: Definitely open to keeping it if it proves necessary. We're thinking that once we ramp up the QA roles and have a dedicated QA engineer per group it won't be necessary.

| Software Engineer    | Picks up issues, ships them through review and QA, and pulls in the next available work. Also provides input on architecture and product decisions. |
| Quality Assurance    | Acts as the team's quality partner from intake onward — helping draft and shape stories with a focus on quality, reliability, and stability — and validates changes in **Awaiting QA** before they reach **Ready for release**. |

> While the PD is responsible for ensuring an issue reaches **Ready**, in practice the EM is most often the one physically moving the issue into the column during standup or weekly planning.

#### DRI areas

The Roles table covers day-to-day responsibilities. Use this section to determine who owns a given decision within the working group. When two roles overlap, the named DRI has the final call; collaboration is still expected.

**Engineering Manager**
- Cadence and health of all rituals (standup, weekly planning, release demo, release retro).
- Whether a story is ready to discuss at standup or weekly planning.
- Staffing and swap-ins when an engineer is on-call, out, or stuck.
- When to escalate a blocker outside the group, and to whom.

> - Whether to spin up a [working group](#working-groups) or wind one down.

Author: ```suggestion
```

**Product Designer**
- Whether a new issue takes the **full draft** or **fast draft** lane.
- Whether a story has enough definition to move to **Ready**.
- Product scope of a story: what is in, what is out, and what is deferred.

> - When to escalate to the [Head of Product Design](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design) or CTO on product or design ambiguity.

Author: ```suggestion
- When to escalate to the [Head of Product Design](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design) on product or design ambiguity.
```

- Whether a customer promise or activation blocker needs [t-shirt sizing](#t-shirt-sizing-capacity-planning) even when fast-drafted (shared with EM).

**Tech Lead**
- Architectural direction and technical scope of a story.
- Technical feasibility of a proposed change and whether it should be split, deferred, or reshaped.
- Review priority across open pull requests in the group.

> - When to escalate to the CTO on technical risk or cross-group impact.

Author: ```suggestion
- When to escalate to the EM on technical risk or cross-group impact.
```

- Whether a [sub-task](#sub-tasks) should be created versus folded into the parent story.

**Software Engineer**
- Implementation approach within a story, including libraries, patterns, and test coverage.
- When a pull request is ready for review and who to request it from.
- When to move an issue to **Blocked** and what to try async before raising it at standup.

> - When to pull in the TL or PD for clarification rather than guess.

Author: ```suggestion
- When to pull in the TL or PD for clarification.
```

**Quality Assurance**
- Acceptance criteria and test plan for a story, including edge cases and platforms covered.
- Whether a change can move from **Awaiting QA** to **Ready for release**.

> - When to push back on a story for testability before it leaves drafting.

Author: ```suggestion
- Whether a story meets minimum criteria for testability before it leaves drafting.
```

| 📨 Inbox | Any issue labeled with the working group's `#g-*` label lands here. |
| 🦢 Full draft | The PD is drafting the issue on the formal [drafting board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/67). The issue stays in this column on the working group board until drafting is complete. |
| 🪿 Fast draft | The team hasn't looked at the issue together yet. Drafting happens in-place on the issue, often during standup or async in the group's Slack channel. |
| 🚧 Blocked | The issue is stuck and needs discussion before it can move forward. Try to resolve async first; otherwise raise at the next standup. |
| 🥚 Ready | The issue has enough detail to start implementation, though not always enough to finish. |
| 🐣 In progress | An engineer is actively implementing the change. |
| 🐥 Ready for review | A pull request is open and awaiting code review. |
| ✔️ Awaiting QA | The change is merged and waiting for QA verification. |
| ✅ Ready for release | QA has verified the change. Held until the next release boundary. |
| Done | Released. |

There are no formal WIP limits today, but the group should watch for buildup in any one column.

#### Drafting tracks: full draft vs. fast draft

> The PD decides which stories go through full drafting and is responsible for drafting them. Default to **fast draft**; reserve **full draft** for the highest-risk work. Keeping the full-draft queue small protects PD bandwidth and is a chance for Product Designers to grow their decision-making.

Author: ```suggestion
The PD decides which stories go through full drafting and is responsible for drafting them. Default to **fast draft**; reserve **full draft** for the highest-risk work. Keeping the full-draft queue small protects PD bandwidth and is a chance for Product Designers to grow their decision-making skills.
```

> **Full draft** is typically reserved for customer promises and activation blockers, where design ambiguity or customer-facing risk is highest. The PD assigns themselves, adds the `:product` label, and tracks the issue on the [drafting board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/67) through the full [drafting process](#drafting) (product checklist, user story review, engineering checklist), including a [t-shirt size](#t-shirt-sizing-capacity-planning). When drafting is complete, the PD removes the `:product` label, takes the issue off the drafting board, and brings it to the next standup or planning meeting where it moves to **Ready**.

Author: ```suggestion
**Full draft** is typically reserved for customer promises and activation blockers, where design ambiguity or customer-facing risk is highest. The PD assigns themselves, adds the `:product` label, and tracks the issue on the [drafting board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/67) through the full [drafting process](#drafting) (product checklist, user story review, engineering checklist), including a [t-shirt size](#t-shirt-sizing-capacity-planning) if the story is a customer promise or activation blocker. When drafting is complete, the PD removes the `:product` label, takes the issue off the drafting board, and brings it to the next standup or planning meeting where it moves to **Ready**.
```

### Continuous flow

Unlike product groups, which use [scrum](#scrum-at-fleet) with 3-week sprints, working groups use a continuous flow process. Well-drafted stories can often be implemented in a day or two, so batching work into 3-week sprints creates unnecessary latency. Instead, issues flow continuously across the working group's board from intake to release.

#### What is the same

> - **3-week release cadence**: Planning is decoupled from the release boundary. Most changes ship at the next release. Some agent changes (e.g. fleetd, Orbit) follow their own cadence.

Author: ```suggestion
- **3-week release cadence**: Planning is decoupled from the release boundary. We ship what is complete at each release. Some agent changes (e.g. fleetd, Orbit) follow their own cadence.
```

| Tech Lead                         | [Carlo DiCelico](https://www.linkedin.com/in/carlodicelico/) _([@cdcme](https://github.com/cdcme))_
| Quality Assurance                 | [Brayan Jimenez](https://www.linkedin.com/in/brayan-jimenez-19742b286/) _([@Brajim20](https://github.com/Brajim20))_
| Software Engineer                 | [Rachel Perkins](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachelelysia/) _([@rachelelysia](https://github.com/rachelelysia))_, [Jonathan Katz](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathan-katz-494362237/) _([@jkatz01](https://github.com/jkatz01))_, [Ian Littman](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-littman/) _([@iansltx](https://github.com/iansltx))_

**Areas of expertise**:
- Software install / uninstall / patch
- Fleet-maintained apps (FMAs)
- Apple Volume Purchasing Program (VPP) apps
- Google Play apps
- In-house apps (IPAs)
- End user self-service

> The [Slack channel](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C086V2QK76X), [kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/70), and [GitHub label](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/labels?q=%23g-software) for this working group is `#g-software`.

> ### BYOD group

Reviewer 2: Just spitballing a few options since this would not include BYOD ios and would be confusing outside the working group when support / others need to know who to ask.

Android acclimation
Android activity
Android actualization
Android all the time
Android anywhere
Android accumulation
Android.
Android autonomy
Bring your own Android
And-that's-not-all-droid

Author: That was a bit confusing for me, as well, but I think the reason it ends up making sense is that BYOD will be the team thinking about BYOD every day. It doesn't make sense to move iOS away from the Apple MDM group, but the Apple group will be thinking about the entire Apple ecosystem every day. We need a group thinking exclusively about BYOD (and how that intersects with corporate-owned). 

I think BYOD will be the ones driving a lot of the BYOD roadmap, but Apple @ Work will end up being the group implementing the iOS portions.
